what this is: a miniature blockchain network core with persistence, wallets, signed transactions, mining, validation, and an API layer.

the main blockchain backend works like this:

1. The main blockchain consists of blocks that are stored in a levelDB database. Each block consists of:
    timestamp, nonce, merkle root, own hash, previous hash, list of transactions

2. When the backend starts:
    if a valid blockchain exists:
        a. levelDB opens
        b. Blockchain object is created
        c. blockchain initializes
        d. chain loads from disk
        e. state loads from disk

    if no valid blockchain exists:
        a. genesis block is created
        b. chain height becomes 0

3. If using CLI: App enters loop. Each of the commands does:
    a. "add" -> adds a new user after asking for name and initial balance.
                createWallet() is called
                inside StateManager, a new wallet is generated using ECDSA cryptography, which creates public and private keys
                the wallet is then stored inside application state. -> "state.wallets[address]". The state is saved in levelDB.
    
    b. "tx" -> asks for sender, receiver names and amount to transfer.
               loads sender and receiver wallets, checks balances, creates Transaction object
               each Transaction contains: sender, receiver, amount, nonce *, timestamp, txid, signature
               tx.signTransaction(sender.privateKey) -> creates a digital signature using the sender's private key, to prove that sender authorized the transfer.
               addTransaction(tx) -> validates the transaction, and adds it to the pending queue
               validates the following: tx structure, signature, txid, sender existence, receiver existence
               if valid, transaction enters mempool (pendingTransactions queue)

               * nonce is important, it prevents replay attacks and transaction duplication. every wallet tracks how many transcations have been made using nonce. 
    
    c. "mine" -> application begins block creation
                 i. transactions are pulled from mempool (according to the block's limit)
                 ii. latest block is loaded, new block is created
                 iii. block constructor computes merkle root and initial hash
                 iv. mining * begins. Mining repeatedly changes nonce until block hash satisfies the difficulty rule. (eg. 000000000.... for difficulty of 9)
                 
                 block validation begins after mining is complete. validation checks:
                    i. block hash correctness
                    ii. previous hash linkage
                    iii. merkle root correctness
                    iv. difficulty correctness
                    v. duplicate txids
                    vi. signatures
                    vii. balances
                    viii. nonce sequencing
                
                  the validator simulates transaction execution on a temporary copy of state. if all txids are valid:
                  -> balances update, sender nonce increment, global state is saved, block is saved, chain height is incremented by 1
                 
                  * mining is brute force guessing (of nonce) until a valid hash appears


IMP: Our app has two major persistent systems:
    a. the chain, where the blocks are stored
    b. the current global state, which stores details of all the wallets (wallet balances, nonces, public & private keys, wallet existence)

